FC-1145: :memo:  Foundations Chapter (#8)
Templum/developers-community: pages/Documents/DeveloperTools/LivePersonFunctions/Foundations/best-practices.md

  - function-as-a-service-foundations-best-practices.html
---

In this chapter we will highlight some best pratices and tipps for probably leveraging the LivePerson Functions platform.

### Prefer Async/Await over Promises/Callbacks

> Most of our API's are based around Promises and therefore can be easily consumed in an `Async-Await` fashion. Leveraging [Async-Await](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/await) over [Promises](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Using_promises)/Callbacks eases the error handling by allowing `try-catch` blocks. Further when leveraging Promise-Chains users of our platform tend to forget the `.catch` statement and only handle the happy path with `.then`. Resulting in unhandled promise rejections, without any logging insights, which usually manifests as timeout error (as the callback never get called). Additionally it keeps the code shallow, avoiding deep nesting. This benefits the overall maintainability of functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of our API's are based around Promises and therefore can be easily consumed in an `Async-Await` fashion. Leveraging [Async-Await](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/await) over [Promises](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Using_promises)/Callbacks eases the error handling by allowing `try-catch` blocks. Further when leveraging Promise-Chains users of our platform tend to forget the `.catch` statement and only handle the happy path with `.then`. Resulting in unhandled promise rejections, without any logging insights, which usually manifests as a timeout error (as the callback never gets called). Additionally, it keeps the code shallow, avoiding deep nesting. This benefits the overall maintainability of functions.
```

        const {statusCode, body} = await client.get('https://certauth.idrix.fr/json');
        console.info('Status Code', statusCode);
        console.info('Body', body)
        return callback(null, body);
    } catch(err) {
        console.error('Warn', err.message);
        console.error('Stack', err.stack);
        console.error('Name', err.name);
        return callback(null, `MTLS Failed`);
    }
}

async function lazyLoadClientBundle() {
    if (cert && key) {
        return [cert, key];
    }

    const client = Toolbelt.SecretClient();

    if (cert === undefined) {
        const {value} = await client.readSecret('cert');
        cert = value;
    }

    if (key === undefined) {
        const {value} = await client.readSecret('key');
        key = value;
    }

    return [cert, key];
}

}
```

> The above coding will lazy load two secrets, leveraging caching, to call a MTLS Endpoint. You can see proper error handling of errors returned by `client.get` and `Toolbelt.MTLSClient`. Finally the provided `callback` is called with a response or a failure, based on the occurrence of any error in the process.

### Secret Caching

> Our [Secret store](liveperson-functions-foundations-features.html#secret-store) allows functions to fetch credentials in a secure way and also modify them if needed. So in productive use we strongly encourage to cache the secret, loading it once and than reusing it throughout the Lifecycle of a Function instance. Please see the below coding for an example setup, which leverage local variables to achieve this. Please be aware that this is only possible if the secrets are not getting modified and therefore are more or less static. For thinks like tokens you can adjust the caching to reuse the token while it is still valid and not yet expired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our [Secret store](liveperson-functions-foundations-features.html#secret-store) allows functions to fetch credentials in a secure way and also modify them if needed. So in productive use we strongly encourage caching the secret, loading it once, and then reusing it throughout the Lifecycle of a Function instance. Please see the below coding for an example setup, which leverages local variables to achieve this. Please be aware that this is only possible if the secrets are not getting modified and therefore are more or less static. For things like tokens, you can adjust the caching to reuse the token while it is still valid and not yet expired.
```

> Not related to secret caching, but to usage of secret store itself. Please only put secrets and credentials in it, things like URL's or other configuration parameter are better placed in environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not related to secret caching, but to the usage of the secret store itself. Please only put secrets and credentials in it, things like URLs or other configuration parameters are better placed in environment variables.
```

```javascript
const { Toolbelt } = require("lp-faas-toolbelt");
// It's important that this variable is out of any function scope
let secretCache = {};

async function lambda(input, callback) {
  try {
    const secret = await lazyLoadSecret('name');
    // Use secret from here on
  } catch(error) {
    // Error Handling
  }
  
}

async function lazyLoadSecret(name) {
    if (secretCache[name] !== undefined) {
        return secretCache[name];
    }

    const client = Toolbelt.SecretClient();
    const { value } = await client.readSecret(name);

    secretCache[name] = value;
    return value;
}
}
```

> > The above coding will check if the value already exists in the `secretCache` and if that's not the case will read it from the secret store. As the comment highlights it is important that `secretCache` is outside of any function-scope in order to ensure it does not get cleaned up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The above coding will check if the value already exists in the `secretCache` and if that's not the case will read it from the secret store. As the comment highlights, it is important that `secretCache` is outside of any function-scope in order to ensure it does not get cleaned up.
```

### Configuration of Functions using Environment Variables

> We strongly recommend the usage of Environment Variables to make functions easier to configure, even for none technically people. Given they don't need to understand the code, but only adjust environment variables if needed. This also allows you to make the code cleaner by moving the configuration part into environment variables. If you want to learn more about Environment Variable setup head over [here](liveperson-functions-getting-started-configure.html#environment-variables).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We strongly recommend the usage of Environment Variables to make functions easier to configure, even for none technically people. Given they don't need to understand the code, but only adjust environment variables if needed. This also allows you to make the code cleaner by moving the configuration part into environment variables. If you want to learn more about the Environment Variables setup head over [here](liveperson-functions-getting-started-configure.html#environment-variables).
```

{:.notice}

> Environment Variable changes need to be deployed in order to take affect. And Environment Variables are always string, meaning you need to parse any none string type prior to using it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Environment Variables changes need to be deployed in order to take effect. And Environment Variables are always a string, meaning you need to parse any none string type prior to using it
```

### Design your function to be idempotent

> As documented in our [Event Source Page](liveperson-functions-event-sources-overview.html) some of the Event Sources will actively react to error's raised by your function. And reinvoke your function with the same event/payload following an at least once approach. Usually functions will be triggered only once, but they can also be invoked multiple times. Therefore you should design your function in such a way that a retry won't have negative side-affects or causes unexpected behavior on your side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As documented in our [Event Source Page](liveperson-functions-event-sources-overview.html) some of the Event Sources will actively react to errors raised by your function. And reinvoke your function with the same event/payload following at least one approach. Usually, functions will be triggered only once, but they can also be invoked multiple times. Therefore you should design your function in such a way that a retry won't have negative side effects or cause unexpected behavior on your side.
```
